格式转换网站 https://convertio.co/zh/

## chapter 7 采样和重建

Although the final output of a renderer like pbrt is a 2D grid of colored pixels, incident radiance is actually a continuous function defined over the film plane. The manner in which the discrete pixel values are computed from this continuous function can noticeably affect the quality of the final image generated by the renderer; if this process is not performed carefully, artifacts will be present. Conversely, if it is performed well, a relatively small amount of additional computation to this end can substantially improve the quality of the rendered images.

This chapter starts by introducing sampling theory -- the theory of taking discrete sample values from functions defined over continuous domains and then using those samples to reconstruct new functions that are similar to the original. Building on principles of sampling theory as well as ideas from low-discrepancy point sets, which are a particular type of well-distributed sample points, the Samplers defined in this chapter generate n-dimensional sample vectors in various ways. Five Sampler implementations are described in this chapter, spanning a variety of approaches to the sampling problem.

This chapter concludes with the Filter class and the Film class. The Filter is used to determine how multiple samples near each pixel are blended together to compute the final pixel value, and the Film class accumulates image sample contributions into pixels of images.

## chapter 9 materials

The BRDFs and BTDFs introduced in the previous chapter address only part of the problem of describing how a surface scatters light. Although they describe how light is scattered at a particular point on a surface, the renderer needs to determine which BRDFs and BTDFs are present at a point on a surface and what their parameters are. In this chapter, we describe a procedural shading mechanism that addresses this issue.

The basic idea behind pbrt’s approach is that a *surface shader* is bound to each primitive in the scene. The surface shader is represented by an instance of the *Material* interface class, which has a method that takes a point on a surface and creates a BSDF object (and possibly a BSSRDF) that represents scattering at the point. The BSDF class holds a set of BxDFs whose contributions are summed to give the full scattering function. Materials, in turn, use instances of the *Texture* class (to be defined in the next chapter) to determine the material properties at particular points on surfaces. For example, an ImageTexture might be used to modulate the color of diffuse reflection across a surface. This is a somewhat different shading paradigm from the one that many rendering systems use; it is common practice to combine the function of the surface shader and the lighting integrator (see Chapter 14) into a single module and have the shader return the color of reflected light at the point. However, by separating these two components and having the Material return a BSDF, pbrt is better able to handle a variety of light transport algorithms.
